May I recommend starting your day with
the latest version of the mug.
[clears throat]
About 550 calories, 66 grams of protein.
Okay. Um, what we're doing today, so
where's the timing on this
roll out graph? It's actually even
faster than I posted. So this is
130 microscond forward passes right
here. You see this roll out graph
130 microcond forward passes. So what we
have here is 53 microsconds worth of
copy [ __ ]
So we're going to do some utterly
ludicrous things with cudigraphs today.
We're going to see if it helps. We're
going to see if then I can come up with
anything smarter. Uh and we are going to
go from there.
And
I mean there's kernel optimization we
can do here for sure, but I see like 20
20%
overhead that we're just losing right
here to operations that shouldn't take
any time. Morning and chicken.
Uh, of course we have to SSH back in.
And yeah, I need new terminals cuz
SSH broke.
Let me think how we start this. Uh,
right. We were just in the middle of
doing some graph stuff, right?
Yeah. So, I wish I hadn't left it in the
middle. So, I have to remember exactly
what I was doing.
I think
right right so we have this is the
capture option
and then we have to roll out
copy graph
uh no
roll out copy
is the function.
Okay. So now this thing needs to be
runnable.
Welcome to
uh buff state, right?
Yeah. So what is this?
Yeah, we're going to have to massively
clean this stuff up.
We just do auto
state
zero.
Cool.
Obviously code is a mess. Um the goal at
the moment is
so there are this loop runs 64 times I
believe and then well 128 times total.
So there are only 128 unique calls of
this. So we're going to make 128 CUDA
graphs. Whether this is practical
longterm, I don't know. But I want to
see whether this reduces overhead
because this is uh like 800,000 steps
per second we're leaving on the table
right now.
It's about a 40 to 50 microcond per loop
optimization.
C++ torch looks so cool. It's honestly
so the C++ torch is not even bad.
Like if you're doing normal stuff, it's
fine. Uh the hard stuff is the kernel
integrations.
Uh the C++ to Python like communication
if you want to have deep integration
with those two. Uh, and then this
cudigraph stuff has been just brutally
difficult
because not it's like you look at the
code and it's really not going to be
anything that looks that fancy. But then
you have to realize that there are no
docs and there are no error messages or
no usable error messages.
So this took like I think 16 to 18 hours
to get a basic setup working and then
from there it was pretty quick.
But like I literally here, let me show
you this.
So this is like each of these points
took me a few hours to discover, right?
None of this stuff is documented. Well,
this one is, but everything else is not
t like nothing else is freaking um
documented at all.
low level experience, but it's so
daunting. So, this is not daunting. This
is just crap. Like, it's not that this
is complicated, it's just poorly
designed, right? If you're interested in
lowle, though, like
it's a lot of fun if you're not dealing
with this stuff.
Like most of these ends on ocean here
are written by contributors and like
several of these are a few hundred lines
of code. It's really basic C. Um it's
stuff that any first year undergrad can
read and understand.
If you haven't written this type of
stuff before, you will just be how like
you'll be shocked at how easy it is to
write stuff that's really fast and you
can get RL working. And I have guides
for all of this. So if you're
interested, this is where I'd start. Do
you ever try other RL frameworks for fun
like tortural? So
this is not me being arrogant or
anything. It's just a fact. Um we are so
far ahead of every other framework that
like it wouldn't be remotely possible to
do the stuff that we are doing now in
any other library because we are between
100 and a thousand times faster than
just about everybody else.
and the few that are like decently high
Perf, our code is dramatically simpler
and easier to use and has like some
really core things that we need that
nobody else has. So,
I mean, this is what happens when I work
on this full-time for two years.
Oh, also I am very very proud of this.
So, um,
let me see if this is still the case.
Yeah, it is by far. So, uh, Torch RL has
the meta brand, right? It has the
literal the meta brand behind it. It's
in the PyTorch repo.
Our like indie dev no small library
project has way surpassed and actually
ours was created after.
So, I was super happy about that.
Uh there's no assembly as well, coder.
Like you don't even need to get into
assembly for what we're doing here.
Like I'm not even doing anything fancy.
There's not even SIMD like explicit SIMD
on anything or really any
attention to cache optimization.
into lowle code bases and figure it all
out. Hey Adrian, is this uh is this
daunting here?
This is the like multi- aent snake
environment. This is the first thing I
wrote and see with this
uh where is it? Ocean
loguct mstruct
logging initialization
free Alex.
This is computing observations. You just
write a loop and set all the elements.
This is removing a snake from the board.
It's a while loop with some if
statements.
This is the spawn thing. It's one while
loop and a couple function calls.
Here's food spawning. The reset is a few
while loops. I mean a few for loops. The
step function is the most complicated
thing. It's I don't know 100 lines of
logic for the actual game. There's
nothing in here that a first year
freshman undergrad would not have seen.
There's your step function and then this
is all rendering. And this is all you
need to do the rendering.
It's like 300 lines of actual code.
was the latency
on uh the network calls or what
or on the stream.
The forward pass right now is at 130ish
microsconds,
but then there's a bunch of other stuff
that we need to optimize out
in mazes. Uh, actually mazes are a big
part of what we use for a lot of our
algo research. It turns out to be a very
good environment if you set it up
correctly.
Gym in the literature would your library
be used? Yeah. So, if you use gym,
you're just doomed to have everything be
slow.
like their N format itself is already
going to prevent you from getting the
speeds that we get.
Ours is very close. It's like their
vector format, but then their
vectorization is also slow. I mean, it's
really every single part of the RL stack
had to be rewritten from the ground up
multiple times to get to the speed that
we have.
Like if you go take um like SP3 or clean
RL or one of those, you'll see a few
thousand steps per second training. A
lot of the time the target for this next
release is 10 million and the current
public release is between 3 and 5
million for a lot of MS.
Sunny there. It's Florida. It's always
sunny.
Yeah. So, Adrian, I have a guide. It's
on my ex.
This is where um anybody who's new to
the space here,
like
these two articles, this one if you're
brand new, um this one for RL
specifically, these are probably my two
most polished pieces of content. Uh this
will get you into this space,
Well, but the thing is those M's are
slow, right?
Like the problem is the problem is like
it's you can use whatever you want with
puffer lib and it'll be faster than if
you use it on your on its own. But like
literally every single other piece of
anything in RL is built slow almost
without exception. In fact, I don't even
know of any exceptions. So like if you
look at our release for instance, we
have soda on mazes by a mile. Um and I
don't even have to give you a numeric
comparison. I can just show you visually
cuz it's like it's so incredibly obvious
here.
All right. Like find this in the
literature, right?
This is our maze agent. It's trained in
one G on one GPU in a few minutes.
But like in order to do this
stuff just needs to be fast and our
stuff is a thousandx faster. Like we can
train this at 2 million plus steps per
second.
And in fact, I think in the new version
we're going to aim this one we should
aim to have much like 5 mil.
So yes, you can use Puffer with
anything,
but if you take a little bit of time to
look at, you know, the stuff that we've
built, you'll see that if you just use a
lot of our stuff like end to end, you
can get just absolutely ridiculous
speeds and it's a totally different
field. Like doing RL at thousands of
steps per second versus millions, it
feels like a genuinely different field.
Not to mention, we've made poor
algorithm advancements as well.
Not for my use case. Robot learning. Uh
whatever. You can still bind like if you
have an existing robot end, you can bind
it to puffer and you can still benefit
from the speed of the rest of our stack
as well as our other tools. Like we have
really good hyperparam sweep stuff. We
got really good viz. We have a very low
overhead trainer. You know, you can also
benchmark if you have a custom
architecture or something, you can
benchmark it on our other ends. Things
like this
benchmark your codebase. Uh the easiest
meaningful thing just to test if your
stuff works is breakout.
Mazes are good from there. In the new
versions, we have 2048 is a really good
end. Uh but then we also have stuff like
neural MMO is our hardest end. That one
we've trained that one for like 650
billion observations and it's still not
tapped and perfect.
Overall state of academic research in
general is quite negative. It is very
negative.
Like just go pick a paper at random, try
to implement it. to see if it actually
works the way that they say it will.
Eight times out of 10, it won't.
Even if they have code that they've
released, it's like you poke it the
slightest bit, it all breaks.
And I get to say that Robin, because
I've been doing research in academia for
about a decade, right? Basically started
the moment I got to undergrad, did my
full PhD.
Like most of the people I [ __ ] on, it's
because I've read their code.
There are a few really good people still
in academia. Um, there are still a few
really good people in industry,
but mostly the good people have just
gotten bought up by LLMs, like LLM um
companies. So, there's just very very
little good stuff still remaining. Um,
and I'm that's why I'm sitting here
trying to change it, right?
If I can just get this release to a
solid 10 mil. So that'll be like 2 3x
speed up on our normal benchmarks. I
think that it'll be 10x speed up on some
of our smaller batch size experiments.
Uh and it'll just let us be it'll
basically let us automate a ton of
science.
like we won't have to pick and choose
what experiments to run. We'll just be
able to launch um clusters of 10,000
experiments on one machine, no problem.
That's kind of the current
vision for it,
if you will.
seems cool underpaid and wait
in practice.
Never did any re That's not at all how
research works, man.
So what I'm doing here, okay, if I guess
if you're talking about academia, yes,
but what I'm doing here, so this is all
open source. This is all free to use. I
also run a company, Puffer is a private
lab, and uh we build
high performance simulators, simulations
uh that are hooked up to RL and our
tooling for companies.
So the thing with research is that the
actual stuff we're doing, like I am
sitting here at my desktop and I'm
making a branch of science a thousandx
faster in about two years. Like I've
done that already and I'm getting
another 10x with this. So
like there's kind of nothing you can do
that is that high impact and you the in
like what this is going to enable across
many industries is nuts.
Uh it is a lot of work
and you know you basically have to build
your own company around something like
this in order to
do anything with it.
But it is pretty awesome.
Um, academic research
I find to be very myopic. But then
again, like industry research,
it's basically the same thing but with
different [ __ ] and better paid. I
guess
really the only way to do research the
exact way you want to and to be making
huge impact is to do your own thing. at
least in stuff like this where you're
not capital constrained,
if you will,
underpaid or overpaid. The good
researchers can't possibly be overpaid.
like they're really good researchers.
I guess the thing that the thing that
you have to have in mind and that you
have to kind of see to be true is um
skill in engineering and research is
exponential.
Like one really good research uh one
really good researcher and engineer can
just easily do better work than a
hundred mediocre ones.
So, nine figures for LM's law.
Uh well,
nine figures is like they're mostly not
getting paid nine figures in actual
comp, right? I think some of the ones
that joined earlier um their
uh their equity has appreciated to that
extent. Yes.
Um
and actually, believe it or not, like
yes, a few of them, I'm not saying
everybody, but a few of them are worth
that and more.
I think it's somewhat unfortunate that
we've decided to point literally all of
them at LLMs instead of having a little
bit more diversification because there
are other areas of AI um that are just
not going to be subsumed by LMS at all.
But yes, they are worth it.
And of course, there also a lot of under
of overpaid people that have no idea
what they're doing.
And that's everywhere.
I mean, essentially between him and
Justin, like that's the only reason
there was any content that made it easy
to get into AI in the first place. And
then like the way that he structured
stuff is probably responsible for the
few tools out there that are not written
absolutely terribly.
He has a skill set that is, you know,
chunks of it are very similar to my own
and it's one that I respect immensely
because I know how hard it is to do
well.
What the heck is going on with X? Is my
X frame dead?
It's getting unable to connect or
whatever the hell.
It doesn't show me on here. What the
heck happened?
Yo, X,
why uh why you killing my stream for no
reason?
YouTube being laggy.
Oh.
Uh, apparently there was an internet
blip. I did drop some frames.
I'm not dropping any more frames,
though.
I think my internet did something weird.
All right.
It should be more resilient than that,
though. It should not just break up your
stream into a different post
immediately. It should let you
reconnect.
YouTube and Twitch both let you do that
without chopping into different bots.
All right. So, we have buff state. Ah,
yes. I see
I can probably just do this one here for
now.
Yeah, man. Address like honestly C
without address and compile time tools
is a bad language.
Like the thing that makes C awesome is
it's a very simple language where you
write very simple code and then a lot of
the error checking
um and debugging is offloaded to compile
time flags so that your final product
code is very easy and simple to read.
you don't introduce complexity for the
sake of making it easier to debug and
then just compiler options do that that
you can then disable
uh to make the code run fast.
Same sentiment, you know, take 80% of
them for LLMs, right? Like LM are
actually very very useful. Well, yeah,
they're being overpromoted, so they're
not as useful as being hyped up, but
they are useful. Um,
and like it's a pretty crazy
breakthrough tech like technology wise,
but um
the narrative that they're just going to
do everything that everything else did
before is wrong and like trivially so.
or at the very least the bet. You have
to at least be aware of the bet that
you're making when you say that that's
the case.
more world models.
I'm actually a little bit bearish on
world models, Jake, because um the main
RL paper that has gotten people excited
about those is one of the most egregious
examples of [ __ ] not working as written
on paper.
myself and um two of the best people I
know spent a lot of time
analyzing that
I think we're alive. The internet just
dropped for a sec.
just internet blip.
I'm in Florida. Florida infrastructure
is kind of bad.
Must be Oh, yeah. You're in the UK then.
You
>> [laughter]
>> Wait, is it uh American office or is it
like remote with American office or is
it like local?
Cuz that might just be the um American
UK culture difference.
Americans
are a lot more brash
than um Europeans.
It depends where you're from in the US
to be fair.
No one was smiling. [laughter]
Well, are you sure you didn't go to the
German office by mistake?
Defense is pretty serious and draws some
pretty serious people.
So now we have to figure out why we
can't trace, right?
If I do it with zero threads, is it
okay?
If I put this down here.
So, there's this annoying issue where
like me creating CUDA streams in the
environments messes up graph capture.
We just need to be able to test this to
be fair to start.
Okay.
So that seems to Oh,
Okay. So, can we now
Oops. Let's do
Let's keep that there
and let's just do
Uh
here I think we can just
interesting. It is faster.
But why is this not
This is faster, but it's not like way
faster, right?
Oh well this is also the um
okay so there is actually h
[clears throat] interesting
I guess though like the time to trace
they should be negligible Right.
So, like even though I have even if I
have to have a ton of these graphs,
FaceTime is negligible.
So, that should still be a few
hundred,000 step per second improvement.
That's like a
3 4% jump.
So yeah then I suppose question from
there would be the
I mean the main chunks of it right right
here
strain forward graph or all that graph
Well, there's a massive amount of
cleaning stuff up I have to do as well.
I think I'm going to start with cleaning
stuff a little bit.
I'm going to start like cleaning some
things up so that I can then profile and
optimize a little better. Um,
is there any other way I could be doing
this? I don't think so. I need to use
the restroom real quick. Give me a few
minutes. I'm going to do that. I'm going
to walk around a little as well and then
we'll continue on this. But so this does
this did work.
Yeah, this did work.
I'll be back and then we will continue
the stream.
also going to get a mug of tea. And then
I think we're just going to jam um clean
the code up. And I'm like I've thought
about it a little, the profile's gotten
pretty flat. So aside from maybe a
couple kernel enhancements, like we're
kind of just going to be getting upperc
here while cleaning it up. And that'll
get us pretty close to the 10 miller.
I'll be right back though.
See,
be good for a couple hours.
We're going to get this cleaned up.
We're going to add in like options for
graphs on or off.
Um,
we're going to cut out some small
redundancies here and there, old stuff.
And then we want to be very confident in
these profiles. Um, maybe even make it a
little longer. So that
essentially we want to be able to
like stack up one to 2% performance
gains here.
and just squeeze out the last little bit
of perf.
Let me make sure.
So, desktop audio is off.
So, you should still be able to hear me.
I put some music in the background.
And if we uh
if you can hear this, let me know though
because I'm going to get dim.
Oops.
My
settings.
The heck
cracking.
Why can't I hear?
Yeah, good. So, you should only be able
to hear my mic.
I like to throw something on when I just
do refactors because otherwise it's a
pain in the ass.
[sighs and gasps]
This is going to be active refactor
though.
Keep in mind I'm not a C++ dev. I hate
this language. So I don't know even
basic stuff like this.
Okay, this will get a cast error.
Okay,
that's so gross.
But whatever,
we'll do this.
There's probably some better way to do
this.
of a dream job. When I was very young, I
wanted to be an inventor.
I'd say I got pretty close.
And then from uh I've been doing AI in
some capacity, at least since I was 14,
15. Half my life.
Yeah, I think it became clear pretty
early that I was going to want to do my
own thing.
I could technically do the actions in
double,
right? Because that should be a safe
cast if I'm careful.
Double contains every int.
I mean that is doable if like a lot of
things are doable if you're good. That's
the key. You have to actually be good.
And the amount of effort that it takes
to get good is dramatically higher than
the amount of effort it takes to get a 9
to5.
You know, stuff is optimized for a
traditional path. If you want to do
something else, you very much have the
opportunity to,
but don't expect it to be easy.
space.
I don't know too much about the space,
but hey, you know, good luck to you.
We do a few things in finance. Um, but
very much like simulation stuff.
I'm actually trying to think what we do
about this because
there are too many inputs and outputs to
these um graphs
as each copy is a kernel execution,
isn't it?
actually. Is it?
Wait.
I don't know if there's a separate path.
If it's the same overhead.
Oh,
on. Maybe this doesn't need to get
crafted.
this the day working on it. Jess
took a look at the repo and profiling
really interesting consider putting the
environment on CUDA is inherently
CPUbound. So Nicholas, our environments
are going to be in general not great
workloads for um CUDA like we just have
highly branching stuff, right? Arbitrary
S.
So yeah, technically you will you'll
kill the host device transfer overhead
and you'd be able to graph the entire uh
forward loop if you wanted to. Uh our
forward paths are about 130 micros at
the moment for our very small models. So
I don't think just the like launch
overhead you'd get more than a 10% boost
from doing that. Uh not to mention that
you're now using GPU time on the
environment whereas currently we are not
actually using any GPU time on the
environment. Um, additionally, we have
fancy new vectorization where we are
buffering the transfers from CPU to GPU
such that when uh by the time you're
ready to get a new batch of
observations, they are already ready for
you on the GPU in our new
infrastructure. So, we have some pretty
darn good mitigations for overhead in
the way that we have it set up. Uh,
there would be real benefits to having
it pure on GPU if it were fast and that
would absolutely work for some of our
simpler M. In fact, I even have a little
prototype for one of them. But I'm just
trying to think of like so if we do
something like this, and we probably
will have some infra for GPUms going
forward, but like
you know, something like this driving
end, we actually ported this from a
pretty sophisticated GPU engine to CPU
and we made it 15 times faster on the
CPU than it was on the GPU. like these
workloads are not well optimized and
technically yeah you know with a really
carefully handtuned thing you can
probably get it to be better but the
thing is it's just so incredibly easy to
write these on CPU I mean you just write
brain deadad simple C code and it's fast
and that's it you're done so
in my mind the trade-off's really not
worth it obviously if we had a heavy
physics robotics end or something like
we would put it on GPU instead of trying
to optimize it on CPU where it doesn't
make sense.
But for most of the stuff we have, it's
kind of sketchy trying to get it to uh
be pure CUDA. I had a couple ideas for
like a compatibility layer where you
could basically just write C and then
replace a few of the math and RNG
functions to be CUDA or CPU dynamically.
Um I might still do that stuff. We'll
see. But the rest of this update ended
up taking so much time that I don't
really think I'm going to mess with it
too much for 40.
how to deal with procrastination
by having an incredible amount of
discipline in other areas of my life.
So, I usually don't procrastinate stuff
until like unless I'm really just burnt
out and genuinely need a break.
Like now, right, I got back from
vacation. I genuinely feel like working
on this stuff. Like I don't really have
any urge to procrastinate my work. Um,
if I work on this for the next four to
six weeks straight
without really doing much else, then I'm
going to see like my focus start
slipping and then it's like there's not
like a way to deal with it. You just
take a break. Now, how do you know when
you need a break versus being lazy is by
having discipline in other areas of my
life, right? Um,
I do quite a bit of running. I do quite
a bit of lifting. I push that quite
hard.
You know, I've hit a number of goals
that I never thought I would be able to.
So, I have proof to myself that I have
discipline so that I can essentially
trust that when my mind just refuses to
focus on stuff, it's because I genuinely
need a break.
It can take a while too. like um I like
just genuinely needed a week and a half
off last time and I was like man I must
be really like why did I need a week and
a half off and then I got back to cudah
hell and I was like oh this is why
cuz I had to solve this crap
Get out of here, boss.
There we go.
Yeah. So, school sucks because it
doesn't let you work hard. like when you
feel like you can work hard and take
breaks when you need breaks. It just
assumes a constant rate
working just like working at a constant
pace for a long time is very hard for
me.
That is why people
extension. Yeah, I have that actually.
There's a comment at the top of the
setup.py with that. It's really
obnoxious. That's why when you build
environments in Puffer, we have the
scripts build ocean which builds pure C
and then you do all of your development
and testing in pure C and you also get
instant compile times like that. So you
just use native C tools C debugging, no
Python [ __ ]
And then most of the time you can just
bind to Python and it'll work first
time. And then if you really if there's
some weird thing then uh you can use the
know the extra preload tools.
Yeah, that's about right though. Off
market I didn't have time for anything
else in um in high school either.
It kind of depends on your situation but
my experience at that age was just like
work to death.
yeah, I don't know what those are. don't
have those in the US.
Yeah, we don't have those. That's kind
of odd.
Oh, I see. But wait,
we have those to study. You don't like
go take those under a timed condition.
They just give you some of them to use
to study.
is really really bad.
Yeah, that's a lot of them.
I even the best universities are not
going to have consistently good
educational material.
Which is kind of funny, Jess, because
the project management that they end up
teaching you is uh you have to do the
whole thing yourself or it doesn't get
done, which is exactly how it works in
the real world. So I guess it it kind of
does work in that sense, huh?
Java two hours and see it embedded.
That's
honestly I think Java teaches you
negative engineering skills. Like
I honestly think that if you just take
somebody and like teach them normal
stuff for two months versus if you take
somebody and teach them Java for 6
months and then normal stuff for two
months like the person who didn't see
Java will be better. Java just makes you
a bad programmer.
I learned Java as my first language. So
I had to take years on learning it.
Wait, do Google calendars? What? What
does that even mean?
The program is good. Yeah, Robin. Like,
honestly, the program for that is you
just build [ __ ] Honestly,
like the main thing that you get from
doing a degree is the few courses or
sections of courses that are actually
good and fill in gaps for you. Um the
people that you meet and then the
prestige of it if it's a good one at the
end. Like you don't get the actual
learning experience that you get by just
building [ __ ] and devoting a lot of time
to it.
Now, of course, you know, when you're
building [ __ ] you're going to build
stuff wrong for a very long time. So, it
helps if you have some people you can
ask. I didn't for the most part. Um, or
at least I was too stubborn to listen.
And it took me a very long time to
figure out how to do stuff properly.
Very, very long time.
Oh, wait. Am I I'm so dumb. Okay. No,
the buffer transfers are fine.
Okay.
Wait, did I not I didn't check the
output of this right
That's actually kind of funny how
awesome grapping is.
Are you already pipelining mstepping
with GPU board or is the mostly mostly
sequential?
Um,
if you're talking about like your
typical
I guess it is kind of like pipeline
parallelism, huh?
I guess it's a little different because
yeah, we are interleing batches of M
steps with batches of GPU forward. So
like 8192 M's, right? You do half of
them on half of them GPU, other half are
stepping in the background, that sort of
a thing. Yeah,
as far as I'm aware, literally nobody
else does that. Um,
at least like the GPU buffering's a
chunk of it.
It was quite tricky to implement
actually.
It was very tricky to implement.
I make a commit soon. I haven't made a
commit in too long.
Okay,
here's the restroom real quick. Um,
yeah, I think it's going to be mostly
just like clean this whole thing up,
figure out what buffers and copies and
stuff are redundant, and then we can
continue optimizing. We do need to get
into the kernels, I think, at some
point. And obviously we still have the
envelope. We still have some bugs. We
still have all the numeric to do. But we
should at least be able to get some
janky prototype to 10 mil today. If I
keep on cranking, I'll be back.
Okay,
[clears throat]
let's get
optimizing. I actually realized we don't
necessarily have to cudigraph the copy
transfers if we can time them. Um
there's a timing thing we can do in a
bit that might eliminate that.
I think I'd like to use the rollouts
code. Maybe maybe
I forget what's the compile command for
this.
What's the damn basic make thing? I
never use make, so I literally don't
even know.
Yeah, that's why I don't use it. It's
just I'm doing this for a quick test
only.
Literally can't even one shot like the
simplest goddamn possible test.
Whatever. We're going to just copy the
whole script.
I can't even do this garbage.
This is the only LLM respectable devs.
Like I said, I'm going to test this on
screen. I think that your respectable
dev friends are just morons. They all
suck.
only they were all over like the
previous gen models since 35.
Theo
and that guy is supposed to be like
swear like brain worms.
The models all suck. All right. They are
all incredibly stupid.
Yeah, I think so. I made a tweet on
that. I have a huge amount of respect
for his other stuff.
I think he's gone off his rocker with
the LLMs.
Exactly.
And most of the people who've been
clamoring about these models have been
doing it since literally 35.
[ __ ] I've had people tell me 35 was
like good at writing.
It's just straight up people being lazy
and not wanting to learn [ __ ]
Yeah, exactly. That's kind of the thing
with carpathy.
I have a huge amount of respect for like
the way that he can simplify really hard
things and that is useful for far more
than education. So, he doesn't get
anywhere near enough credit for that.
Um,
but the L1 stuff is just batshit.
I don't know. We'll see. I said I'm
going to do a stream on this sometime,
probably later this week.
Will there be a day when I like the mo a
lot a model? I don't know.
Show me one that doesn't suck.
I also just don't like the form in which
people are trying to put these models in
in the first place. Like it's how do
it's like they've been designed for how
do we make it so people think less,
which is in my mind like a form of
intellectual suicide. Ah, instant
demonetized.
Can you say that again? I thought you
could say that again. I don't remember,
data viz. They're [ __ ] for data viz.
I've used them for it. Like when you're
saying it's amazing for thing, what you
really mean is thing has absolutely [ __ ]
interface that I don't want to bother
learning so I can use this to do deal
with the [ __ ] interface for me. But like
then you still have this clunky
interface of going through an LLM rather
than just having a well-designed
interface that lets you do what you
want. It's incredibly suboptimal
and it's completely against the spirit
of
I mean of intelligence itself.
All right. See this model's brain dead.
Look, it can't even it. Let me see
what's it doing.
engine tooling? Yeah, see that's real
code. Contact
what is he? He said it was like a really
inept
grad student. Didn't he say it was like
a really inept grad student or some
[ __ ]
So dumb, man.
just written this test So
right, this is this script is not even
worth dealing with. I thought that the
LLM would be able to do u like literally
the simplest possible profiling script,
but nope. It's completely irredeemable.
It's like just not helpful in any way. I
see I say every single time I bother
waste my time.
Every single [ __ ] time.
It's Grock. Yeah, I try Son and does the
same [ __ ] Try out this on stream later
in the week.
I'm going to give it a real task,
though. I'm not going to give it this
crap.
All
right. Whatever. So, let's see from
here.
Where we at?
Wasn't there like a study that showed
that that stuff was [ __ ]
step environment reset. Okay, we don't
need this anymore.
Start cleaning things up.
This [ __ ] didn't work. Should get rid of
this
target.
Now we can actually
Oops.
Get rid of this.
8.7 full.
So
and the paper.
What paper?
8.7 with these things, but also without
the end in the loop.
Somebody retweeted this because it's got
some more attention.
Oh, hang on. After the four, there will
be the will where there really be any
overhead beyond end speed. Oh, yeah.
There's still plenty of spots to
optimize, Jess, if we wanted to. It's
just we're starting to get like
diminishing returns.
And like it's very difficult to go
faster without really making it hard to
use with the upgrade. What are the new
upgrades for the new release of Puffer?
What was most important? Oh man, it's a
lot of stuff, dude. It's a lot a lot of
stuff. We have everything in C++.
Everything cudigraphed,
optimized async mem transfers, custom
kernels, new highly paralyzable
architecture.
Um, there's just a ton of stuff in here.
I mean, we still have like what's this?
15 plus%.
But I think can we just like start
profiling? Um,
we probably should get some current
profiles out of this.
Take a quick look at copies
and then we'll do some current profs. If
you write a summary, yeah, but like not
now. It's going to be for the release,
right? There'll be a like probably
several big blobs on the release. It's
not done yet, man. So, like right now we
have
the goal is if we can hit the 10 mil
today, that would be awesome. But like
even once I hit the 10 mil, right,
there's a huge amount of cleanup.
There's a whole bunch of numerical bugs
I got to fix. There's a whole bunch of
stuff to refactor. Um there are
literally over a 100,000 experiments
that I have to run.
We're not exactly close there. Current
architecture is min based.
I also have to figure out there's um I
need to figure out how to either make
fast RMS norm or make it work without
RMS norm though.
Time to 10x. You probably can honestly
I mean it's pretty tough but you
probably can. I mean, we're at the point
where like
the thing is 10x would give you if you
got a 13 microscond forward pass
like
you're at the point where
having a kernel launch somewhere is
substantial overhead, right?
Done with cudigraph. We have CUDA graph
doing stuff. I don't know if I'm done.
Let's say
I probably should do the um
I probably should actually do the memory
timings for torch
using cute DSL. I don't want to
integrate Q to DSL.
You don't need a DSL to make it faster.
It's just a difference in kernel.
If you give me the perf numbers though,
I'd like to see what the extent of the
speed up is you can get. Somebody linked
me something with like a 30% speed up
the other day. It has to be way faster
than 30% though.
Use the restroom real quick. And uh we
will I think we'll probably start doing
some burn props. I'll be right back.
Okay.
You need a DSL proficient
memory reads on Blackwell.
Uh,
not really our main target.
6x from large rectangular.
This is this is large batches, small
mats.
So it's like um you know 128 256 hidden
something like that. Um forward batches
4096.
Train time batch is like 32k.
You need a DSL for efficient memory
reads. I don't believe that.
I've heard black's a [ __ ] but more
DSL's
not the way forward.
Yeah, whatever. We're not doing that
just yet.
If you point me to where it is, I'll go
take a look, though.
I need to do um
I had something in mind I wanted to
check.
Right. It was the zero
Oh, yeah. It's a really weird clamp,
isn't it?
I can't use it in the DSL. Like the
problem is if I just get a custom kernel
for the thing, it's a really obnoxious
kernel.
Like I don't know if you've seen the
backward for it. It's immense.
But that's not included in this yet.
Okay. I forgot that like the norm works
this way.
I mean we can probably
Let's get the current level profiles
going again.
there's something with the profile,
right?
Yeah.
I think I'm like missing the blast.
We'll see.
Uhhuh.
That failed
Why does this just fail with like
silence
Where can I see the improvements? It's
on 40. It's pretty unstable, though.
Like, this is not the type of thing that
I can just commit as a series of small
incremental improvements. It's a pretty
sweeping set of changes.
So adding food blast breaks this. Is
that what I'm saying?
It might be the just the weird syntax.
Hang on.
This
maybe this gets holes.
text space model.
Um, [snorts]
there are a couple things I could do,
but I think you're mostly just screwed,
Jess.
Like you're just hard. You're just
hardware bound.
I don't know if that this is the correct
model. Uh,
or compile automatically capture
everything. Depends on your settings.
Uh yeah, it depends on your settings
and um you have less control
and then also torch compile itself is
kind of a piece of [ __ ] So
this is the right amount of time. See,
it's 10 seconds,
but then the kernel times are off.
Unless one is one of these in map mode
like
this.
No. Right.
They just don't add up. So presumably
this is just like the nonmal kernels,
right?
Now we can look at the real kernel
timings
potentially.
You see the bite that this takes out of
Perf though without the graphs. Look,
literally 6 mil up to 9 mil.
Okay, now we have cutless kernels,
right?
You see, now we actually have cutless
kernels.
So, let the graph bring it up.
All right. So, but then the questions
this is 16 seconds.
It still should be decent. It'll be
within factor two.
So what do we say? Train forward graph.
This 5 seconds.
Yeah, 5 seconds.
3 seconds to roll out graph. The
percentages are pretty close.
Percentages are pretty close. And then
we go to
the kernels.
Yeah. And the kernels are actually like
this a pretty flat profile, right?
Uh the only thing that really stands out
is this one
element wise kernel.
I mean we got fuse scan backwards in
here.
Like this is 10% right here, right? And
if you scan up
and then this one here is another. So we
got like 15% from these maybe
grew gates fast.
Wasn't there one more?
No, I think these are big ones. Let's
see.
I mean, you can see how fast this is
though, right?
Yeah, there's po lost. Nothing down
there.
But is this the same?
Is this all element wise ops?
Oh, wait. Four micros.
Yeah, never mind.
So, these are just this is just
profiling launch time then.
This just doesn't report everything
properly though.
Although we do have this
2 seconds
>> It's weird though that I can't time the
rest of the maps.
Uh, wait, I missed a message. You have a
lot of branching logic. Understand your
profiles.
Understood. CUDA graphs async was a
bottleneck being
very long complicated. Python charge
uh just that we have tons of little
operations mainly
that do we have like tons and tons of
little operations
see I mean you can count the number of
kernels and just see like oh okay if you
get a few microsconds launch overhead
each it's actually a Oh,
freezing here in Poland. It's very warm
in Florida
as you would expect. It is Florida.
what we can do to test.
I mean,
we're kind of towards the end of our
optimization, I think, for now. I wanted
to do a couple last things.
Let's just let's change the 32 to 256.
Let's do this.
Try this.
I just want to check real quick.
uh when it actually trains stably jazz I
have to do numeric for this like to
work.
I have a lot to stuff. I'm actually This
is what I'm going to start on now is
like cleaning it up.
I was just seeing if there's any other
free SPS.
I think the last 10% is going to just be
a little bit of a grind.
we add in some options for graphs,
kernels,
stuff like that.
See if I get something relatively
stable.
I think I can get that stuff done now if
I uh It shouldn't be that hard actually.
Use the restroom real quick. Grab a
drink. I'm going to make myself a quick
cup of tea.
The thing is it's like there's a lot of
stuff I have to do because I have a lot
of crap that's hardcoded.
Um but yeah, it's going to be about a 3x
speed up for your average use case. I'd
say we still have to try bigger nets and
stuff. Um,
probably smaller than 3x on bigger nets
and then bigger than 3x when we have
like smaller batch and stuff.
Make some more tea.
I'm trying not to overcaffeinate myself.
Okay.
So,
My light doesn't turn on. Turn the other
one on. One sec.
Yep.
Okay. So,
we're going to just make some settings
for graphs on, graphs off, kernels on,
kernels off. Real quick,
I think the results will affect how we
do sweeps when the cross and
it's definitely going to affect sweeps.
It's going to enable us to be efficient
in regimes that we were not efficient in
before.
It'll be very cool.
uh we're going to have we're going to
have some in cases where we care about
sample f, we're going to get more
efficient small batch learning
and we're basically like we're not going
to be as constrained to gigantic batches
as we were before
because we're going to be more efficient
for smaller ones. But then in cases
where large batches are very efficient,
like we're still going to see crazy
speeds,
even There.
Okay, those are all the colonels for the
ship.
15 steps per second. Yuck. You're off by
at least five orders of magnitude, my
friend.
This thing I'm working on now will get
us to 10 million step per second
reinforcement learning.
Have to get the end build stable as
well.
Sutton and BTO and trying to build the
examples. Not my recommendation to you,
frankly.
Sento is good background, but you're
going to learn. You're going to be
disappointed by what you're able to do
in like the amount of time you put in.
It's better to do that once you've
actually like gotten some stuff working
and you want to come back for like
detailed math. Uh where is it?
This guide is all my best advice here.
If you have a decent programming
background, this will get you building
something that works and is fast uh
within like a weekend at most.
Some goals for next year
uh I don't know. I think if we
revolutionize the field twice per year,
that would be a big goal. You know, we
get two puffer updates out per year. And
each puffer update needs to be an update
to the field, not just a puffer.
Realistically though, um, hover five is
going to have some crazy stuff for
exploration in it.
And um we'll see how much is left after
that. Right? Puffer four is just going
to be crazy speed, crazy numbers of
experiments, crazy data viz. And then
five is going to hopefully be some core
exploration problems being solved.
Video walkthrough of writing your own
ends. Nope. I have a text guide of
writing your own ends. You can check
some of the old streams if you want, but
you really don't need video. Like
honestly, most video content is
entertainment, not education.
If you actually work through the text
guide and follow it and like do it, you
will learn
chess. We have the pick phase system
reward for captures and stuff that only
that really was only results in the
second phase to be
I don't know what that means. Do you
think there could be problems? You think
with J it's fine. Really only results in
the second phase.
face. Pick the face.
Wait, you mean like that you only get a
reward like two steps ahead instead of
one? That's fine, I think. What
hardware? 15090.
And this is with a specific set of
params as well. That's like pretty
realistic. If I crank the batch size up,
we're going to hit 20 mil, right?
If we crank the bat size to stupid
small, it'll be lower. But like in our
default test, which is what we use for
our common benchmark, 3x perf, some some
spots will be less than 3x, some will be
much more.
Regardless, I'm going to know that I've
pushed this [ __ ] hard in Puffer 4 and
that we have good solid benchmarks and
we're not just leaking PF everywhere
without understanding why. I honestly
don't think anybody has ever done proper
profiling on RL and been like, "Yeah,
okay. This is categorizing. We're
leaking this much PF here, this much PF
here." I did it in Python, but like that
[ __ ] doesn't count, man. Cuz then it's
like just Python's leaking the PF.
Um,
right.
Okay. So, with all the syncs, we're at 8
point whatever
it's good.
photographs.
Okay. Colonel's off. Photographs on.
Look at that.
Boom.
That's nuts.
Your boy wrote some kernels. H.
Your boy wrote some kernels.
That is so validating right there, guys.
Look at that. 8.7.
We use torches C++.
All right. With cudigraphs
down to 6.1.
So my kernels did that.
All right. And then without photographs,
which was really hard to do, completely
undocumented, and took me 18 hours,
So, I more than doubled the perf. Screw
you, torch.
That feels good.
Of
course, we are going to have numerical
problems and yada yada yada all the
things, but you know, good start. Uh,
this does not have the environment in
the loop yet. We need to get the
environment back in the loop, but the
environment should be fast because we
have GPU buffering. Now,
the only reason we don't have the M in
the loop is because it screws up some
stuff with graphs that I haven't figured
out how to work around yet.
Let's leave this on.
Let's go to eight
and then
we do a little edge.
How do you get conraining gameplay
agents to solving problems in biology
and material science? Those people
dramatically overestimate how important
and hard their problems are.
I have had several clients at this point
have me build them sims in variety of
areas that seem like very hard problems
and we've had about as much problem
getting superhuman performance on them
as uh we have had solving breakout
really fast plus stable RL plus hyperp
search OP
pretty much that Santiel now look there
are qualitatively some problems that are
harder um there are some aspects of RL
where our algorithms, core algorithms
need to be better,
but that's in the plans and we already
have the path forward for that.
So, it's pretty much just going to be
how do you get to solving problems in
bio material science? Well, those fields
already use SIMs in a ton of places. So,
now they get cracked out intelligent
SIMs that can optimize for a goal rather
than just telling you what happens when
you set an initial state and run it.
It's just like most overpowered possible
tool you can ever want for science.
Merry Christmas. Ho ho ho.
Okay. So this I think breaks cudographs
but let's seeuh if we can get this to
run
if I can get this to run without I think
we can test stability maybe
automated experiment variation it's not
exactly that though is the thing because
like setting up the experiment is more
akin to optimizing hyperp sweep this is
substant stantially more powerful.
And the thing is we can do both. Like
you have to make RL say 100x faster to
get really really nice uh quick
experiments and then you have to make it
100x faster again to get really nice
sweeps like 10,000x and we've done it.
Agent solving a game. Yeah, pretty much.
RL really does not care, man. if you're
solving a game or something else. And I
don't say that because I've only worked
on games. Like look,
you think this drone end was
particularly hard? Nah, man. This thing
solves as fast as Breakout does. What
about driving end? This one is
admittedly a fair bit harder, but now
we're down to like hourish for training.
This one's a lot of work with NYU. Um,
but Bay Sim, no different game. Um, what
else we got on here? A lot of the rest
of these are games. Some of the other
ones are for clients, so not on here.
But that's two of them at least.
Games are really good for research. I
think it's actually one of the major
mistakes. A lot of the time, the major
things holding research back are just
like psychological screw-ups by all the
researchers. And I think in this case it
was just not respecting games enough and
not realizing how games map onto real
problems enough.
Supply chain not yet. That's actually an
area we're quite interested in, but we
have not had any interested clients yet
in that area.
Search problems. It's kind of a search
problem.
Honestly, games are really a better
model for a lot of things than um like
classic
search definitions.
A lot of complexities you can map from
games to real problems.
Does this run or does it crash?
Oh, it runs
and it optimizes. So, this is like
kernels off pudgraphs off.
This is not expected to be great because
uh it's missing this one little network
thing.
I should probably just put the RMS norm
in and see. Right.
Yeah, games are awesome.
I've literally had like a top 10 prof
basically. No, I've had two world class
props tell me like essentially they
think games are dumb and I'm wasting my
time. I've just been completely wrong,
both older.
What can you do?
Being really smart does not protect you
from really stupid biases.
I'm not mean either, but at least I got
the edge in this chunk of stuff.
Read your articles.
You can read my articles. Get good. You
can get good. It's simple. It's not
easy, but it is simple.
Make money.
Well, yeah. I mean, it's hard
in some sense, right?
Very, very few devs like can just write
good simple code without causing
themselves a mess.
Like there are also a bajillion other
ways that you can make money that are
very simple as well that are much easier
than what I'm doing. Like this is not
like a uniquely if anything like profit
is secondary here, right? I'm mostly
doing this for the science. It also
makes money. But
like the same stuff I'm doing now, I
could be applying at larger companies to
save them ludicrous amounts of money.
Like most I like at most, if not all of
the big companies have major engineering
fails costing them many, many, many
millions of dollars.
that is like messing up basic [ __ ]
You're running this on CPU. Uh, nope. It
is on GPU. The profiler for this is just
not on. How do I find the problems to
make money? Exactly. And how do you get
people to hire you for them? So, that is
why Puffer has the advantage because I
build all the tools. They are online.
Companies can see them. And this is why
I get contacts from companies asking for
uh asking for custom SIMs in the first
place.
Because the credibility is right here in
front of you, right? I build all the
tools.
Money equals more time and more time.
Exactly.
I kind of view it as like a private lab,
right?
It would be nice to have a stable
version of this
[ __ ] infra
solving actual
well the original thing in terms of what
we do is we build simulations right it's
not business problems mostly it's like
simulations in various industries.
I simply meant that if you have the
ability to do this type of work that I'm
doing, you also have the ability to do a
lot of other things that probably make
you much more money. Like this is not
the first thing that I would be doing if
I just wanted to make money, right? It
does make money, but like there are much
easier ways to do it than trying to like
solo a field of science.
Robins, honestly, that's just cuz you're
not high up enough to make the damn
decision for them and then show them the
result of it.
So this um
I believe this is about what the Perf
was before but we have somehow messed up
that this does not solve fully.
So, it would be good to have this one
stable so that we can then figure out
the rest of them.
That's cuz they're not engineers, dude.
We're not good engineers.
This is also the reason I don't like I
don't bother, right?
Cuz you really like you can't just like
you can't just be a good engineer and go
into a big company and like make huge
differences by just keep adding like
small incremental changes. At some point
you just have to toss the whole thing
and rewrite it.
Say a muffin
tend to be the most romantic when it
comes to humanity. I'm not romantic one
bit about it, dude. Humanity sucks. Good
chunk of it at least.
But that doesn't mean we don't also have
awesome stuff worth preserving.
And regardless of your thoughts on
humanity, eradicating disease is only
good. Right?
Eradicating scarcity is only good.
You don't have to be optimistic about
humanity at all. You just have to be
technically capable of building stuff
that makes a difference.
Anthropic. Oh, yeah. But those guys are
nuts.
Like if you want like a list of the most
outofouch batshit insane p people
possible, you just go find theirs.
And white combinator is about the same
but slightly less insane and
substantially more stupid.
Okay,
so here's the annoying thing is like I
don't actually have a good way of
figuring out the regression here.
I do want to go check the learning rate
in healing real quick
at a company more fun. No,
there's nothing more depressing than
having to deal with a [ __ ] code base all
day.
I mean, I look back at what I've done in
the last two years and it's like,
I wouldn't have expected I could do this
in two years.
Completely outstripped any impossible
expectation I could have had for this.
I mean, yeah, I'm sure it's going to be
a lot of smaller ones though where they
haven't gotten above the scale where
it's impossible to maintain.
Like OpenAI had some good stuff when I
was there and it was 100 people because
like 100 people is already too big
except that they didn't have 100 people
on one repo, right? They had like a
bunch of teams of five to 20
what is this?
Oh, we need this, right? Yeah. Yeah.
This is going to be if
Club base open. I have no idea, man.
They definitely still have some smart
people there, but I refuse to believe
that you can scale a thousand plus
people and maintain talent density.
There just aren't a thousand plus good
people.
care about that if you just publish
papers. Yeah, but like are you in
research? Because the vast majority of
published papers are just wrong and
useless
if you just pick an RL paper at random
from a top conference from a good like a
prestigious group like better than
better than even odds. It's wrong.
Oops. One second, folks. Let me go get
the door.
Um,
I think we can shut this right.
cuz these two are both missing
essentially right now. These two updates
are missing from my kernel.
Uh, we're going to just comment this for
now, though.
Uh yeah,
we're going to do work.
We'll comment this one. This one
shouldn't matter much.
I don't know, man. I find something else
entirely most likely.
Oh, shoot. Okay.
Uh, we need to add something.
not being 10 times larger and 10 times
slower than it needs to be is not
particularly subjective.
I do like procedural as a whole.
procedure just read means like write the
damn code top to bottom in the dumbest
simplest way you can think of
a lot of puffer this stuff you're seeing
is like I'll fix this though you got to
realize I'm fighting torch at the moment
so like I'm stuck to the way torch does
stuff until I figure out how to get
around
40% MFU is kind of ridiculous if you
think about the money that they spend on
the chips though.
Like if you just like stop and think
about that for a second, isn't that like
just insane to you?
Yeah. So that just simply means that
there's zero room for skill expression
and that is a bad spot to be in if
you're any good.
do with
right right I was just needing to do um
index Okay.
Yeah, I got a lot of CUDA graph stuff in
place. It makes a huge perf difference.
This is with zero optimizations enabled.
It's like four mil with zero
optimization
and nine width.
It's definitely more than 2x from just
the optimizations.
No, that's eval. But it is about it's
pretty close to that when you turn the
optimizations on
the problem. Well, we have to fix the
end thing because there's a bug where I
can't I can't instantiate the cudigraphs
with the threaded end.
It should be around nine once we do
that.
Yes, it is a completely different use
case.
Where in the world are people training 9
million SPS in Puffer?
You know, we'll be able to just on any
of the Sims that we're building, we'll
be able to use this directly.
10-second experiment sounds pretty good
to me.
I'd love to have 10 second breakout or
40. That'd be so sweet.
So I know this is not going to work
correctly with song.
I know I haven't dealt with that yet.
What's the end goal after super speed?
Well, then we automate all of our
experiments
and we get to automate like order of
tens of thousands of experiments
on core algo and on a number of
different environments.
And then we also get to make the process
of solving a new problem
equal running a thousand experiments
instead of running like 10.
like literally from the algorithmic
advancements we've made now plus mostly
the pure speed um we are solving
problems now in hours that would have
taken months during my PhD so
I think if I messed anything Also,
we can also set this just to make sure
it's not an end threading thing.
I think we do have a Python version that
we can use as a rep.
We'll have to double check.
That's more expense. Exactly.
like E10, we're basically we're
confident on our ability to iterate on
SIMs and on algorithms provided the
experiments are fast and they're fast at
the scale of a sweep and our sweep code
is good. If that makes sense.
We're going to commit this though cuz
this is like a nice startup setup.
There's the Python version for reference
2.6.
But you can see the numeric are
different. We have um
I'm trying to remember if this full
solves
Yeah, diminishing returns my ass. I've
made it. This update's 3x faster.
People said, "Oh, you know, you can't
make it fast. You can't make it faster."
Back when they were training at 5,000
steps per second.
Now we're getting 10 mil.
Okay. Okay, so this doesn't always full
solve, but it's pretty close. So the
numeric are definitely different.
Get away to a Neil dense rewards
natively. Get away. Um,
I can't think of how we do that
natively.
we do when you reach speed light then
I'll be happy that we can actually
finally do experiments properly
Right?
Like making stuff several fold factor is
just it's a meaningful difference to how
you can do experiments.
And in particular, it's not just the
speed, right? Like there's a lot of
visibility that this gets us because
like before we didn't even know why the
hell certain things were fast or slow,
right?
It's actually pretty difficult to
profile small networks accurately
physical limit. Of course there is.
It's actually hard to compute though
because like yeah you can compute the um
like the max flops but then in practice
you're actually membound. So it's pretty
hard to come up with a realistic upper
bound
and experiment plus sweep converges to
uh converges to solving like medium
difficulty RL environments out of the
box that would now take us months of
manual work would be the idea. E10
So the loop is essentially find a
problem we care about, build a sim,
throw the RL at it, RL solves it. And
the harder the problem is, the more
manual work there is. And the better the
RL is, the best the less manual work
there is.
AGI find specific problems.
Oh, I mean like my long-term goals are
very much gen like general intelligence,
but like the way I see that this helping
is like this basically gives us narrowly
superhuman intelligent tools for various
areas of science.
Like if you think about it, there's
basically no way that you get the
results of what I'm getting here out of
an LLM or out of any other branch of AI.
Um, unless you're assuming that it's
literally going to write the code for
you for this library, which like go
ahead and try it. Good luck.
Yeah. So this is four four mini layers,
right?
once you figure out why do self
improvement. Um, there is actually a
chunk of that plan for puffer 5.
We get two out
and then the norm right
the norm correct.
f of zero.
Yeah. See, this is weird.
Like the way this is.
Buffer Ms are in rail and quite simple.
They're not quite simple. We have M's
that are harder than literally anything
used in academic research
and industry is no longer doing this
stuff. Like pretty much the only harder
stuff out there would be the full scale
Go where we haven't scaled our version
to that obviously or like Alpha Star uh
Dota maybe like five total things.
We framed this thing for 650 billion
observations. It's like five pabytes
uncompressed data.
Um, you know, this driving end is now
being used by multiple companies,
driving companies.
We're also doing some stuff with drones.
Like highfidelity physics is not the
only important thing out there. And it's
not even the most important thing out
there. Far from it. It's actually to me
one of the least interesting things you
can do.
You basically only need that for hands
and humans as well. Like we could
totally do quadripeds. Um probably six
degree of freedom arms as well with like
the type of stuff we do on CPU
leather sim.
I don't know about that, man. Is that
shift divine design stuff? How come? Cuz
what do you do with it? Yay, robots.
Cool. Robots don't get us like
advancements in uh medicine and
materials and stuff like that. It
basically just gets to replace a human
worker for slightly cheaper. Whoopded
do.
It's the dumbest possible version of
sci-fi.
Seem to real problem. Not really. We
have one dude doing it already and we
have an intern coming the summer this
summer to do it for our drones.
For low dimens like low dimensional
stuff probably not a big issue. It's
honestly it's not the sim to real stuff
that's hard. It's the um it's having to
hook up to perception for certain
problems that's hard.
Obviously sim to real is way harder as
your sim gets worse which happens with
lot higher dimensional
um control problems.
But again like you don't necessarily
need highdimensional control to do
something very useful.
There are some very useful applications,
but like to me, I'm way way more excited
about like RL produces us new materials
or I mean, hell, even if you want to
take robotics, I'd be way more excited
about a cracked out six degree of
freedom arm that can assemble stuff
faster than you can visually track than
I am about humanoids.
your to adapt. Why do I need to adapt
them when I can just retrain into
different? It's fast.
What is this?
And
I just want to know what they use for
epsilon. Damn it.
They have none and I want to know if
there's a default
Card gaming rules are not fast enough to
keep up with the 30 second. Why not
using torch as long as the model
torch? But what was the M implemented
in?
Like it's quite easy to keep up for most
game logic type stuff and even low
dimensional physics.
That was your problem,
right?
Try the CMS, man.
It's really not that tough. It's really
fast. It's a heck of a lot of fun.
He looks cool. Is it faster than prefix
sum with?
It is a prefix sum, isn't it?
You need a custom You need a custom
kernel though. The torch one is really
slow.
Best use
asked it to find use of two phones.
Best use upstairs.
I I would need the torch code base. I
can never find [ __ ] properly. We'll try
it in a second just to amuse you. But
give me a second.
to implement Mamba. Mamba is super slow.
We tried it.
Want to sound smart and connect it to
um we're using mini at the moment. It
has the same sum type thing, but it's
fast.
The linear attention op is just unusably
slow.
Okay, what do we want? You probably want
it in the load as well because I don't
think it's like magic.
All right,
what is the
You can. I tried the
S4 or whatever. I tried the linear
attention kernel they had. I think it
was
like you could get it faster than the
other attention ops, but it was still
way slow.
Is there no f info in um
[snorts]
so annoying?
I can do this one
in the meantime. I don't think it's the
reason, but we can try it.
Haven't there been like multiple
companies caught doing that, dude?
Pretty sure there have been multiple
companies caught literally just doing
that.
Oops. This is Python version.
We want this version.
All right. Um, yeah, that didn't fix
[ __ ] Uh,
Yeah, this is not going to be it though.
So why
why are we why are we off is the
question.
Wait,
why do we have two weight decays on
here?
We have two weight decays.
by the weight decay.
All right. Y
pole.
Are you using
am I using current working direct?
So, I don't know what the heck this was
supposed to be.
Also, if you're supposed to do this
before or after orthogonalization.
Oh, well, we don't have weight decay
enabled anyway. So, it like even if this
is a bug, this would not show up, right?
Yeah.
So, this would not show up.
So I mean the rest of this should be
fine.
So our weight decay
Cautious. Uh, yeah, it didn't help when
I tried it.
We can re sweep that. But it didn't help
when I tried that.
Well, I mean the the problem is now we
have lots of things that can potentially
be wrong, right?
Like it works but not perfectly.
We do have the range function back. I
remember to restore that.
Okay, this is 4 * this is 8192 ends
same everything else
continuous
the same end parset
architecture
similar values. So eaten the point the
thing that's a little bit subtle than
this is that mining grew it should be
substantially faster and especially
better for long sequences uh in wall
clock but the thing that made it
difficult is that you are
you're essentially doing your min
implementation versus Nvidia's stupidly
optimized LSTM kernel.
So that's why it was difficult to get
some of the perf initially.
But like this essentially sets us up for
longer sequences nicely as well. There's
still some barriers to doing that, but
this is like one of them substantially
improved upon.
So, I am trying to think what I could
have broken.
Do I have a version of this that did
work?
I think I did, didn't I?
Let me go look at my old commit messages
on this.
Are you working?
We'll see.
Did you compare perform wall clock? Yes,
I did. E10. It's the same or slightly
better.
Yeah. So, I actually don't see one where
I have
Yeah, I don't have um I don't think I
ever did match
the C++ numeric, did I?
Which is quite unfortunate.
So, now we have to figure out quite a
bit of stuff.
Um,
what is going to be the easiest way of
going about this other than just looking
at it manually
or is it better? Well, here look, I have
it in Python.
So it should not be difficult to match
this um when we're not doing custom
kernels and stuff.
One looks correct.
No, but it shouldn't be 400 score. It
should solve
You see this is the um the Python
version which is not like perfectly
tuned. So it doesn't always full solve
but like yeah here this time it does.
You see?
So unless I don't have the arc. No I do
have it set to uh Oh.
>> [clears throat]
>> So here's the Python version.
And then if we do the unoptimized C++
version,
we have to match numeric
heavy ball momentum equals true. But
we're doing that, aren't we?
This is heavy bow momentum right here.
Right. It's just nest.
Unless I broke Newton Sch somehow. I
don't think so, though.
I guess this one could be.
Let me go try the old one.
I would doubt that's it, but it might
be.
Uh, here we can do December.
Okay. So, this is the where's the zero
power?
And so, this was their original
formulation here. I changed it because
it was slightly faster.
Believe people will it depends what they
do. If they just run Brock 5 on League
without any training, no freaking way.
If they just like if they do a whole
bunch of work like RLing yet, then they
might. But it's just going to be like a
less efficient version of um Open AI5.
like the less efficient and massively
less impressive version of open the i5.
Okay. So, this is this is the Python
one, right? Oh, no. This is our Yeah,
this is the correct version. So, you see
it takes a bit of a perfect hit, right?
Let's see what this converges to.
Okay. So, this is still like 400s.
It's not this.
Was it 4 something mil?
Took quite a to
To be fair, it's a slower version of
like the best result ever in the field
of RL.
Um, but like still
If you said heavy ball momentum to
false, but isn't this what heavy ball
momentum is, man?
Right here
uh which is actually using so this one
works now this is our our version right
bufferlib.mu on
okay so this is our muon
and this is the same code right
like this is the same thing
so we're using r mu on now and we get
Heavy ball momentum is different from
neester.
Is it?
I think I tested this though. I tested
that this matched.
Uh, hang on. Is this not Can I not
import this?
Mu on
I tested this is numerically identical.
I'm pretty sure
learn to create environments. There's
not a YouTube playlist, man. There's a a
very good text guide to follow. A
YouTube playlist will entertain you. It
will not actually teach you how to build
stuff. You have to like you actually
have to build the thing yourself. The um
the articles plus the sample code I have
will be more than enough though. I
promise you.
What the heck is wrong with this?
You bad.
Take a look and util. But I'm pretty
sure I have a test that says that these
are identical, man. Like numerically
identical versus heavy ball.
Is this not the same thing?
Why write optimizer in C++? Overhead.
There's a ton of overhead in this
optimizer, dude.
The optimizer will eat like three
million steps per second if you do it
naively. like not the backwards the
optimizer.
What the heck is wrong with this thing,
man?
Why can't I run my test?
Yeah. Isn't this the same thing, dude?
Like,
Again, I also literally have the
numerical test for this.
Okay, there's your momentum right there.
And then here's this momentum.
So, G + S * beta
G
plus state Beta.
So this is G. This is S * beta,
right?
How does it make sense Torch is so
unoptimized because they don't care
about models as such
exist in nest drop and not heavy wall.
Well, then where's the heavy ball?
Is it this one? If I can just run the
test though, you'll see it's numerically
identical. Like unless I broke it
because I literally when I ported this
man, I wrote a test to see like that the
update that was applied by my person was
identical to the update applied by heavy
vault.
Like that could be the best thing,
shouldn't it? rather than just looking
at the source code and I yet right
if I can just figure out what the heck I
wrote so that like my test can run
Like this is a Python program. Why can't
I import this
That's kind of like you're looking at it
live streamed.
Oh, I bet it's this, man. I bet it's
this.
I bet this is screwing up with the name
space or whatever the hell.
Okay, let's see if I can recompile and
have this work for once. Then
we'll just double check.
Let's add some stuff.
Yep.
Minus 2 million steps per second.
You got to realize that the timings are
very tight with models that size, right?
Our forward pass during eval is 130
microsconds.
I um Well, I don't see how importing
this possibly breaks anything. So, let
me recompile.
Let's see if I just got stuff in the
wrong order. Didn't import some other
thing it needs.
No way. This should have a bad Alec.
Yeah. So, but you'd agree, right? If I
can just like test this and I can see
that the optimizer implementations are
identical.
I mean, did like does this obviously not
look like the right momentum or
whatever.
Let me see what I tested actually.
Yeah, look, I'm tested versus heavy ball
momentum equals true.
So,
And I remember I have this test passing
unless I broke it.
Oh, there it goes. It was just an import
screw up, right?
learning right 1 e minus 3
biggest dip is 1 e minus 8 and that's
tip in final params
our smart kids are all busy
I mean I could have very easily taken
one of those. It seemed exceedingly
boring to me.
It compute open for GPT. What would you
do with RL? It'd be very difficult for
me to scale it that quickly. Um
to scale it super quickly just like
we frankly we need a ton of new MS
to make the use of compute. Like just
add more compute is not the answer to
everything. Like industry kind of leapt
on that because yay there's something we
can pour money into to get better
results, right? But like that's not how
everything works
over initializing classes. Oh, it's
minus 2 million steps protecting even in
C++, man.
We can go check the overhead if you'd
like if we delete it from the graph, but
graphing it at least helps. Lots of
little kernel launches.
All right. So, I mean, according to
this, this is still correct. Um,
I mean, I guess it's technically it's
possible that I broke the C++ one,
right? Because this is only testing the
Python one.
It is definitely possible though because
I'm looking at this. I did only test the
Python one.
Let's just take a quick look. See if
there's anything obvious.
grad update update times equals so
that's m scale scale is
square root
oh did I screw this up hang
Max of one.
Uhoh.
one and grad scale.
Oh, to the power 2. Yeah, it is right
there. There's a square root at the end,
right?
So, it is correct. That's the same thing
shape.
So, this is identical. And then we
already tested the numerical change on
um we already tested the change on this
NS duration.
Why is it I don't know, man. It's
There's overhead everywhere.
We have to work quite hard to get rid of
it.
I mean, it's not even that there's that
much respect for Roger. It's just that
like that's not a remotely appealing
deal to me whatsoever.
I worked far too hard for that to be
remotely enticing to me.
Interesting.
Yeah. Numeric's annoying
things like this can be environment.
This can be lots of things. Presumably,
it has to be something relatively small
though or it wouldn't be training
Any MMOs?
I mean, the two that I have the most
hours in their old school RS and um do
and both of those I'm not allowing
myself to download because they are
three heroin
I think like what other little subtle
things I could have screwed up. I mean,
I guess it is possible that I should
print the learning rate real quick,
like actually make sure that the
learning rate is correct,
the back end completely. But I did that,
dude. What are you talking about?
Okay. So, you can see the learning rate
is decreasing, right?
this thing is awesome.
So awesome in fact that I should sponsor
it.
the restroom real quick and then we will
continue hunting for numeric. Thanks.
Really pretty good for us. You know, you
can do um you can write shaders and
stuff with this. Hook them in as well.
We do that.
I I briefly did that under a different
name.
But uh yeah, we should uh not go down
that route because Puffer will not get
done. That game is way too addicting.
To give you an idea, in that game I have
an inferno cape, a twisted bow, a dusted
omelette, and a master's helm
before I stopped.
Got me real good.
And I believe Keller's implementation,
at least one of them, no, Lucas's
implementation uses Vlo as well.
Okay. Um,
let's go check.
We do have radic
clipping enabled, right?
Where's our PP level? Oh, here it is.
And then
ratio new
attach. Yeah, this is it.
And this one also new value detach. Yep,
these are all fine.
I didn't mess with this
accumulate mini batches
be one here, right?
That's fine.
Event
anything else that I did
not think so
Did you turn off ads?
I don't think you can do that, right?
Hang on.
I wonder if this
Where's the mean? Wait
ratio
mean. Yeah. So, here it is.
And the advantages.
Yeah, this is all the same.
I'm trying to think what other stuff I
could have messed up.
You know,
What's this prior cross?
This looks different, doesn't it?
Yes, I have it here.
Right. Prior props, prior weights
and be Oh, wait. Hang on.
Hang on. Do I not copy?
Might do right. index
it's everything right I'm not missing
any copies This
I think it's copied into this graph
train.
Did you just like directly copy that
tweet and that followup?
Or was that you made the followup tweet?
Why is the kernel faster
than the torch eaten? We have like we
have traced photographs on everything.
So the launch overhead is gone. The
Python overhead is gone. We also have
custom computer for a bunch of mobs. Oh,
that was you.
I honestly I don't know, dude. My
understanding is that's not a normal USB
key though
cuz like yes, technically there are a
lot of mechanisms that you can defeat in
that manner.
My understanding is it's not a normal
key though.
PPO
what
PPO loss
that is one of the things oh that well
yeah we have a kernel for it as well
but even if we don't use the kernel it's
still faster because we've used all the
little operations
Clip multiply and stuff.
Every single one of those operations is
a kernel kernel launch. What did I use?
All of it. I wrote one kernel for it.
So you take your pick. You can graph it
or you can have a custom kernel or both.
I don't know. I no I probably did shel
but
The old implementation. No, it's going
to be there for comparison and is a
numerical check.
And also could I like the colonel should
still be faster than cudigraphs, dude.
my kernel my element wise kernel ops are
still faster though than the graft one.
Like I have both dude.
We tested this. If you remove all of my
kernels and just use graphs, you lose
like two or three million steps per
second. Like kernels get I think
graphing gets you two or three million
and then my kernels get you another two
or three million.
I'm wondering what else I could have
messed up.
Man,
not a great spot to be in um looking
just manually for
numerical screw-ups.
I asked you why would I why would I list
your CV live
and why would you ask me to review your
C? I don't even remember. Do I like I
probably have one somewhere, right?
I'm not a good person to ask like to
review traditional forms of credentials
suboptimal. There's a lot more than
that. E10. Like the end effect was slow
because it wasn't GPU buffered. Uh I had
to do that. The
LSTM was one part of the model. There
were still other ops outside of it that
were separate kernel launches. Torch
compile itself is terribly written and
slow. It's not as fast as just doing
your own food tracing. Um, so I
definitely had to draft
uh my mini brew since I don't have a
fancy kernel and there's a whole bunch
of ops in that compared to an LSTM which
deeper like I had to write kernels for
several things in mini group because
there a bunch of elementwise ops that
need to be fused plus the scan op which
is really tricky
Maybe I didn't need to write a kernel
for the PO loss. I don't know. I think I
still did. It's probably not as big of a
deal. I think mine would still be
faster.
Why is Colonel faster than
Gra?
I mean, you're paralyzing the you're
paralyzing all the ops
at once. It's just like unless you have
something that fuses the kernels
like just traces like the launch of like
all these ops then all these ops and all
it like traces all the launches.
I have a bunch of element wise ops. It's
still better to just like give more work
to each core.
When I launch my kernel, it does all the
element wise ops pretty much for one uh
like one dimension.
First time. What are we doing here?
We're currently looking for a small
numerical discrepancy
between um a C++ RL training code and a
Python RL training code that I have. Uh,
we have a very optimized version of the
C++, but like the base version still has
some numerical quirks. So,
this thing is ridiculously ridiculously
fast, but I still have to fix some bugs.
Een, I'm not great at writing kernels. I
wrote a really basic kernel and it was
still faster.
Fusion to work better out of the box.
Well, how do you get fusion out of the
You don't get fusion out of the box.
What do you mean?
Oh, nope. It's everything except LLMs.
We do small superhuman models. You can
view some of them on puffer.ai.
Games. Got some drone models. We've got
driving stuff. We also do a c a bunch of
um custom sims.
uh professionally,
but everything's open source. I'm
currently streaming the tail end of the
next release that we're working on. Um,
this will give us 10 million step per
second training, but there are some
numerical bugs to fix. There's a heck of
a lot of clean up left and probably a
few small additional optimizations.
I'm just trying to think what I could
have broken.
And guess what? We tried Jack before we
did this and it was slow.
So
Jax does so much. Yeah, Jax was just
slow. It was slow. it like it took time
to compile everything and then the
compiled result was slow
and you have basically no visibility
into why.
Now we have things that are fast,
compile fast, don't have a bunch of
startup overhead, and you have perfect
visibility into everything.
Like torch compile is supposed to
technically do that, but it just doesn't
work most of the time. Doesn't give you
any information as to why. And like
usually the result of torch compile is
you sit there, you wait a minute, it
produces you slower code than eager
mode.
So like cud raw cudigraphs are also just
going to be way faster startup.
This was very important to me. I really
hate the idea of having these super fast
little experiments and then adding 200%
overhead because of stupid um
compilation right that you do not need.
There's actually really almost nothing
that I like about Jacks
for the stuff I do. I think Tiny Grat is
already better than Jacks by Miles. I
just don't see any reason I would ever
touch it.
Fused layer. One infernal that does
layer memory found.
I sharp I actually really need a better
RMS norm right now because like we are
sort of dependent on RMS norm at the
moment and uh RMS norm is ungodly slow.
So I either have to find a good
implementation or I just have to find
something I can use other than that
norm.
Yeah, you can.
There's some guides on X as well,
Benjamin. Like the best place to start
is yeah, clone the repo, but then um I
have a couple nice guides.
In particular, I'd recommend this one.
compilation can be cached. You're not
changing the architecture and refuse a
pix size. I am changing the architecture
and I don't use a fixed amount of batch
size and sweeps.
So no, it can't be cash.
I've never used CUDA, but I can give it
a shot.
[clears throat] Well,
you have not ever done CUDA. I don't
think you're going to like it's not an
easy kernel at all. It looks like an
easy kernel and then you realize that
you get horrible cross terms on the
backwards pass.
What would be a good way to figure out
where this discrepancy has come from?
The problem is that a lot of stuff has
changed, right?
A lot of stuff has changed.
dynamically changing architectures.
Well, E10, we do no because we do
sweeps. So, I'll launch a thousand
experiment sweep that includes batch
sizes, mini batch sizes like
architecture width, layers,
Now, we have some kernels in here.
They're very immature, but they work.
And they're like dramat they are
dramatically faster than the torch.
I think what I should do for this
like
it is possible.
Oh, wait. What about the clamping?
What about reward clamping?
Let me go make sure of that real quick.
rewards
end rewards
narrow
clamp
or buffer term. This is fine. No,
isn't this a fine clamp?
Oh, you know, there's some other thing
isn't there um
roll out copy call
let me say
state
this gets zeroed
I think I did this
I mean that is kind of what you can do
in this. It's pretty quick.
If you have annoyance if you have
annoyance with the setup, just use the
Docker.
It should be pretty straightforward, but
like the Python packaging ecosystem is
just such a mess when you're doing um
anything other than just pure Python, no
depths.
So, the easiest is just Docker, but
you can you can also just get it to work
locally. I have it without the docker on
my local.
I always regret it when I do though.
Okay, so we are zeroing the roll out
state. This was the other thing I wanted
to check.
Um,
what the heck else would it be?
RMS norm is not batch size dependent.
That shouldn't factor in. Pixie. Yep.
Hate that too. They all the little pack.
They all suck. All right. They all suck.
It's language level jank and well
packaging package manager level jank.
They all suck. UV is very nice and way
better than what uh we had before, but
there are spec level problems that are
hard.
I'm very happy when I do not have to
write Python.
I just get to write C.
because I said I would uh I said a chat
with somebody at 4:45ish is around
He wants to not do this today. So I do a
call later. Um, so I've got time.
There are no data streams with threading
set to zero, right?
Well, let's set this back to zero
because, you know, let's be sure.
Yeah, this is one of those annoying
things. I just wish this bug would go
away.
Uh,
we'll just have to be very disciplined
with everything.
And actually, you know, I am going to
just revert the optimizer, too,
just,
you know, I just want to make sure we
don't have any room for screwing us.
We got graphs off and kernels off. Okay,
so we're using this is pretty much the
simple C++ version.
Good.
Look how slow it is. 2.5 mil.
quarter of the speed that we're going to
release
is there a way we can isolate
uh the environment. I wonder
can we isolate the environment being
correct somehow?
Well, we do have no we do have the test
like for packaging. No man
standing the end. No.
Make sure I didn't do anything weird in
create environments.
You know what I should do is I should
bind
I should bind the C++ ve to Python
and I should see if that VE works with
um the Python trainer. That would
guaranteed to isolate it, right? That's
what I should do.
Okay, I got
Yeah, I got about an hour to keep doing
stuff. Um I need a quick snack. I'm
hungry. Let me go walk around for a few
minutes and then we'll come back. We'll
do another hour. I'll bind the
I'll bind our effect to uh Python. We'll
test it out in the Python implementation
and that'll be that should be at least
either fixed or guaranteed one major
source of error eliminated. I'd say like
a third of the possible sources of error
eliminated.
All right.
What do I do during my free time? I lift
weights. I run. If I'm really tired, I
play some games. That's about it.
Oh, yeah. And then while I do my
exercise, typically I listen to audio
books.
All right. I'd be right back.
I had to do the toast twice cuz I burnt
it the first time.
from the exposed trade environments,
right?
But then this has to return.
Let's just return
Oh, you returned this as a a couple as
well, I suppose.
Interesting.
Oh yeah, this is fine.
Python back receive.
Python send.
So maybe
Yeah, but this is just annoying because
it changes the buffers a bunch, doesn't
it?
Buffers in the buffers as well.
So maybe that's the spine.
You need the action buffer though, don't
you?
And then the only thing we need to
change
needs to be one.
I think that could be it very well.
Well, let's keep going on this
different number of mini batch.
Like, as you can know, I'm getting kind
of tired, so I'm being a little lazy
with these tests.
If I can just figure out the issue, I'm
happy to polish this when I'm more
Uh. Uhoh.
Does seem to be a difference.
It's better, but that does still seem to
be a difference. No.
There's one other thing I wanted to
check.
Okay. No, we do have this not many
batches.
So this chunk should be the same, right?
Not many badges.
And just to be certain,
just do uh let's this
See, this is better.
So, there's an end level difference. Ah,
crap.
How can there be an end level difference
with no threads?
There is one though.
I guess this gives us a nice limited
scope to test for um
our initial bit.
better tuned hyperparameters. It's
supposed to be the same hyperparameters,
my guy. Unless I've screwed up a
royalty.
Yeah, Finn, we are currently on the 10
mil step per second. Brian almost done
home stretch.
Finn is uh one of two contributors who
PR the drone environment.
some issues with sweeps because of nan
and continuous sent PR to fix.
Thank you.
Match discreet.
Actually, I'm curious how you did that
because I've been wanting that one for a
while, man.
Does this actually fix it, dude?
If is instance,
H I'll merge this for now if this is a 3
0. Yeah, I'll merge this for now.
We're gonna have to figure something out
in four man because
these little functions I think they do.
I think they hit Perf.
I think they hit Perf, but I haven't
even added continuous to 40 yet. So,
good PR.
That makes sense. I don't know why I
didn't think of that.
Thank you very much.
the story around we got um we're up to 9
something million steps per second
training we just have some numerical
issues to fix and it's uh through crazy
usage of undocumented C++ uh backend
cudigraphs as well as a bunch of custom
kernels
down sample equals zcon to disable down
sample or make disable
sample equals it's supposed to mean
uh it's okay that's kind of unintuitive.
Uh it's supposed to just use the last
point.
So you don't use the whole list. You use
just the like the last point
instability where value loss spikes. Any
ideas why
with all hypers or just some
Dynamic patch.
Cool.
Is it in depth?
Can you not whoever this is the memes?
Where's your graph been?
I'm not even joking. Like, I just This
happened to just scroll onto my screen
and my girlfriend thought I had gay. I'm
not even joking. Stop posting this [ __ ]
Death.
Am I blind? Where is it? Up here
somewhere.
There is somebody did mention that to me
yesterday that like we could look at
that. I'd be surprised if it makes a
difference, but not that surprised.
RMS prop momentum SGD implemented fully
connected net in the assignment 231N
with two. Yeah, dude. This is what I
mean. Like you can do 229 and stuff if
you want to, but you're just going to
get the idea that this stuff is really
hard and even if you do the really hard
stuff, you can't really do very much
with it.
Which is why I prefer to teach people
like rather quickly through experience
how to do useful stuff and then fill in
gaps. You do have to fill in the gaps
along the way, but like 229 does more
than fill in gaps. It teaches you a
bunch of stuff that frankly just isn't
relevant at all and it doesn't upfront.
Check my RL guide, man. It's got like I
don't know if you're interested in RL
specifically, but you will learn a ton
of low-level dev, performance
engineering,
um general ML,
like fast prototyping and
experimentation
architectures. Like there's a lot of
good stuff in there and you can do it
all on one GPU.
What are spikes?
Where are the spikes? Oh,
what the
If you can detect that in some way,
Finn. Um,
it's weird how regular that is.
Are the M's resetting like all at the
same time?
Because if they are, we should be doing
staggered resets.
You either do non-deterministic time.
Like we probably should have staggered
resets. It could be that
pull into building maps.
I I don't even think it would be 229,
honestly. Man,
the RL guide, it's probably my best
piece of content. It's either that or my
general programming ML guide. I mean,
all my best advice is in these two. So,
if you just like on my Twitter articles
here, I'll link this one.
Is it best not to do truncation? We just
don't have it implemented. Finn, I don't
think it's a huge deal.
Yes, they are. Okay, they are staggered.
If they're staggered, then you wouldn't
get this on resets though, right? It
wouldn't be regular
because they'll all be misaligned.
Wait, staggered seems like it's Wait,
yes, they are. Are they staggered or
not?
If they're not staggered, go stagger it
and see what happens.
because everything should definitely be
staggered with the um the episode
lengths that you guys are using.
Typically, if I just do
non-deterministic
like I'll just either randomize the um
the starting index during training like
the first time
or I will um
or I'll just make like the reset horizon
non- deterministic so they have misalign
themselves, right?
They're not staggered. Did they all
reset at the same time?
Yeah. So, if they're if it's like if
they're all resetting at the same time,
you want to fix that.
It's so that if you fix truncations
though, damn, that won't fix the issue.
Staggering is independent of just that.
And I don't even think it is
truncations.
I think what's more likely is because
they are resetting like you're getting
new data that looks different like
that's abruptly different from what came
before. That's different from
truncations.
I think it's um I think it's just like a
forgetting or over like over adaptation
thing.
Can you just like stagger is so easy to
implement even if you just like you know
make the horizon
like um you know one and 1024 to reset
like chance instead of reset at 101
1024.
That'll fix it. And let me know actually
let me know what that does.
I've been a little lazy on checking that
environments do that. But we definitely
you do not want to have long horizon M's
that are not staggered in some way.
I should actually add that to the gotcha
list.
Yeah, because I'm here for another
20-ish minutes for a wrap because I got
to get to dinner after
What? Where is the poor algorithm paper
for puffer? There isn't one. Um, there's
a blog.
Our algorithm, it's very like the
algorithm is very close to PO, but the
changes we've made qualitatively, they
make a big difference.
So,
where is it? Yeah, puffing up PO.
The changes are very substantial, like
very significant, even if they're not
super sexy.
I don't really publish full papers
anymore, though. Technically, there is a
there is a paper for Puffer 2. Um, the
Puffer 2 paper won an award, so that was
kind of cool. We'll probably make that
the last one, though.
How would it be? Right. We wanted to
look at proper lab
Someone give me advice who's looking to
pursue research in RL.
I'm so glad I wrote this article. I
literally just copy
paste. Here's all my advice, my best
advice from a decade in the field all in
one place for you.
It's really more of a how to get started
guide
and a bunch of advice.
Now it's right.
That seems odd to me.
Hang on.
This was wrong.
Don't know if this is going to be the
issue though.
Ah, we instantly bolt now.
Interesting.
interesting.
Do you have a job or did you quit? I
finished my PhD and then I started
Puffer. Puffer is a private lab. This
stuff is all open source, but we also
run um professional services. We build
mostly high performance simulators for
companies.
Why not join a company?
I'm building way cooler stuff here than
I could at any possible company.
I mean, I've devoted the last decade of
my life to this, man. This is It's
finally actually working.
In the last couple of years, we've made
everything a thousand times faster.
This update's going to be another 3x on
top of that.
Yeah, exactly. That big.
They don't have cubicles. [ __ ]
Plenty of them do.
You're catching me at the end of a seven
hour stream. So, if I'm a little
unenthusiastic, it's because I've been
fighting debugging this thing all day.
But, uh, it's almost there.
If OpenAI offered you 650K,
no, not at all.
I've declined offers that size before
already.
Like that's not even a good offer.
And uh like that's not that wouldn't
even be a good offer.
Particularly not given that OpenAI is
one of the places that they actually
expect you to do work.
Can you explain it to me?
Uh, sure. I train AI that plays games.
It plays them very fast. Uh, a lot of
real world problems look like games.
And right now I'm trying to figure out
how can we make it play games at 30,000
times faster than the game runs rather
than at 10,000 times faster.
That's pretty much where we're at.
And currently I'm fixing some silly
bugs.
How does this thing set fault?
Size times of size time size of float.
How will it help me in daily life?
Things don't have to help you in your
daily life directly to be useful.
This goes into research and science and
other industries, dude. It's not a
consumer product.
You do get downstream benefits as this
tech gets into a number of areas,
but it's not going to be a product you
buy,
not directly.
Why don't you run it under GDB?
Because I'd have to run it under GDB
through Python, which is a little bit
annoying.
I will do that if I have to,
but I want to see How's
Oh, wait. And am I
Hang on. I think I'm done.
Create environments.
Let's
see if it's still faults.
We sell a service.
Yeah. So, we build all this is open
source, but companies that want us to
build high perf simulators contract us
to do so.
I mean, the idea is you can look at our
tech, you can look at everything out
else out there,
and you can tell quite quickly that it
will be way more cost effective to just
hire us to help build your SIMs and get
your RL working than to do it internally
or try to hire somebody else.
Like, look at it this way. If Puffer Lib
were a closed source library, it would
make sense to pay for services. Okay?
You get to use the exact same library,
but now it's not locked behind like a
third party API. So you can actually see
the internals and have way more
visibility on everything.
What kind of sectors, industries you got
for this now? Um, some finance, one
thing in commerce. We're looking at some
game stuff next year. Uh, a little bit
of defense stuff. We previously did some
stuff in animation.
It's like um it's a pretty broad range
of applications
like the target domain is fiddly
unintuitive sims that h that are
essentially um optimization problems
in trading firms in check. That is
unbelievably specific. So no
hiring for this. Good luck. Yeah,
literally the way you hire for this is
you look at what contributors are good.
[laughter] That's the only way you can.
And this doesn't make any sense to me
how this can possibly set fault because
So, the resume equals fail. Well, yeah,
you can't actually tell unless your
resume says like, I built this
open-source project linked here. Look at
all the cool stuff, right?
You build it from scratch for a company.
No, we use our own tools, right? Like
everything gets hooked into Puff LIIB,
but obviously we use all our own stuff.
Yeah. Okay. That's bizarre that this is
I don't know how the heck that possibly
says false, man.
just give the wrong object or some dumb
thing.
Oh, and my term is frozen.
Am I dropping frames?
Nope. It's my SSH session dropped.
Well, that's frozen. Um, not terrible
timing. I have to go anyways.
Oh, never mind. There it is. Oh, this
internet. I'll give it a couple minutes
then. Meta being miserable. Posting
until I get pipped.
What should we do?
Instead of coasting until you get
pipped, you should probably like
build skills and get a more interesting
job somewhere else, right?
I was at Meta recently.
Yo, can you guys tell the torch folks to
like please stop making everything slow?
That would be great. You can get the
word on over. [laughter]
Yo, guys, can you just like make your
code faster, please?
It's like I swear everything that I
touch from Nvidia is fast and then
everything that I have from like from
meta that wraps it is slow.
Nobody can beat two years of experience.
I mean, you're looking at places that go
off of years of experience.
have done some offset seems to work link
in Discord
Well, wait. Why did you just instantly
PR the offset stuff? Like, shouldn't
there be Where's the graphs?
shouldn't this be polic like shouldn't
there be graphs policy or something
completion rate or whatever the metric
is?
I'm so confused just now. This is
breaking.
This function should not do anything.
Been doing dev. Ah, okay.
Oh, I see the PR. My bad. I didn't see
this the head of it.
We have made great progress to find a
physically accurate frame in a full 3D
model.
Very nice.
New graph. Solid.
Okay, that sounds great.
Yeah, that sounds great.
How uh
any news on the little drone I sent you?
Is that guy flying around yet? Are you
trying Are you waiting to not break it
too quickly?
I probably should have sent you a whole
bunch of replacement blades. Did I?
Wait, did I send you replacement blades
or not?
I probably should have.
Is it what? Oh,
back receive zero.
Literally how you did perfect hardware
is good. Cool.
I'm waiting for the RL drone. Right.
To be clear, Finn, your offer is good
regardless. So, if you just solve it
before the summer, we'll find some other
cool [ __ ] for you to do.
So,
I didn't think you were worried about
that, but in case you were.
This is how I don't understand how on
earth this is possible.
Closer to done policy should be flying.
I would think so.
Wait. Seg fault. Oh, cuz this is none.
Wait.
No.
Can somebody explain why on earth is
this thing here?
what what
I know it's weird, right? I don't
understand how the heck this
it's allocated, right?
Cuz like look, it's not conditionally
allocated.
The only stuff that's uh conditional is
here.
Did you return from the function? No, it
doesn't. It doesn't get to the end of
the function though, unless I'm dumb.
Let me see.
No. See, these both have flushes and we
don't get the done print.
So, it breaks right here on this line.
I don't understand how
even though
Well, I gotta go, guys, because I got to
get ready for dinner, actually. Um, I
will see you all around. Thank you for
tuning in. I should be streaming some
tomorrow. We're pretty close to having
this done.
Um, speed's decent. Numeric's a little
off. If you want to support my stuff for
free, it's all on puffer.ai. Just feed
the puffer a star. I don't know how many
environments I have to make about
puffers eating stars for people to do
it, but it helps me out a ton. Join
Discord if you want to get involved with
development of this. It's a lot easier
to get into than you would think. If
you've got a decent programming
background, you're probably good. And
other than that, you can follow me on X
for more RL content. Thank you all. See
you around.